All right in this video we're going to look at link styling links and buttons and links are kind of
special because they have different states you have here your regular links your regular state and you
have your hover state in active state and a visited state and you can actually style those different
states using something called a pseudo selector.
And I'm also going to show you how to how to style buttons and also how to style a link as a button
because a lot of times you'll have actual a tags that you want to look like buttons in your web site
or your user interface.
So let's go ahead and create a new file here called 08 underscore links underscore buttons dot HDMI.
And we're going to go ahead and change title up to links and buttons.
OK.
And let's add our style.
And for now we'll just put in a tag does it have to.
Doesn't matter where it goes and just say click here and save let's open it up with live server and
we just have a simple link and it's going to be blue by default with an underline which doesn't look
very good.
So I'm going to grab on to that a tag here.
Use that as a selector.
I'm going to change the color to a dark gray and then to remove the underline.
We want to use the text decoration property and we want to set that to none.
OK.
So the default is underlined.
We're gonna set it to none.
Now if I hover over it you'll see we get a cursor the cursor changes into a pointer.
But the nothing else changes.
So you're probably going to want some kind of a change when you hover over it.
Now to do that we can use the pseudo selector hover so we can do a colon and then hover and let's change
the color to coral.
So now if I go and I hover over it it changes to coral and you can you can add any properties you want
here you could do something crazy like I would do font size changes to like 40 pixels.
And now what I have for 0 4 it goes to 40 pixels font size so you can do whatever you want in the hover
state but I'm not going to keep that and let's just change the color and if you want to add the underline
on hover you could do text decoration underline and I could see that it gets colored and it's underlined.
So in addition to hover we have visited so we can do a colon visited and let's just do color red.
Now visited at least for me I know I don't use this very much I don't think I've ever used it actually
in a real project.
When you click on it and you visit it it then turns red and it stays red even if I reload the server
it stays red.
And if there were other links if we didn't click on them they'd be they'd be gray dark gray and then
you'd click on and they turn red.
So it's kind of weird and I really don't like it and it's not something that I use but it is possible.
So I just want to show you that but that comment that out another state that we have four links is active.
So if we do a colon active and let's say color red and now the active state is going to be when we click.
So when I click see how it turns red and if I click and hold it also turns red.
So that's the active state in that.
That's another one that I really don't use but it is it is possible.
So those are the different states for lengths.
Now what I want to do is I want to style I'm going to put a button in here and style the link in the
button the same way.
So it's a button.
And let's give both of these a class of B.T. end.
OK.
So this is often what we'll do in projects is we'll have different button classes sometimes we'll have
like a B10 light if I want a light button Beaty and dark which will be this basically the same just
different colors.
But let's just do BTR and we'll say click here.
Actually no.
Let's put it in the text.
My button just so we know that this is a button and then up here let's say my link and save and you
can see that they're obviously formatted very differently initially but we want to make them the same.
And I'm going to just make this bigger not that big.
OK.
So we have a link and a button.
Let's let's see I want these on separate lines.
They're both inline elements.
So I'm going to just put a couple line breaks here just to kind of get them away from each other.
So buttons obviously are styled differently.
They have a border.
They have a little bit of padding here the fonts different.
So let's go up here into our styling and let's say button styling.
So we have a class of B10
and let's go ahead and add a background.
And I'm going to use a blue that's like like a Facebook brand blue.
So it's going to be for C six C a zero and let's set the color of the text to white.
OK let's save that and see what we get.
All right.
Now we want to remove the border because buttons have borders going to say border.
We could either do border none like that or we could do border zero.
I usually use border none.
So save that.
Now the border is off the actual button.
Next thing we want to do is is the font size.
OK.
We want the font size to be the same for all all links and buttons which we're going to set to 16 pixels.
So we'll save that.
Good.
Next thing we'll do is the padding.
So let's say we want to do 10 on the top and bottom and 20 left and right.
Save that.
And this is this is zoomed in that's why this is so big.
Can actually zoom out a little bit now.
Yeah.
And let's change the font for the body.
So I'm going to say font family.
Let's grab this or is it to home.
Sig you UI to Homer.
OK that looks a little better.
Back down to our button.
Let's give it a little border radius.
OK.
And this is these are all properties that we've learned about.
So we're kind of taking all the stuff that we've learned and actually creating an element that that's
styled.
OK.
So now you can see they have the the rounded corners.
Let's let's actually put a line break above the the a tag to just bring it down a little bit.
All right.
So these are these are pretty much identical now so for any button or any link with that we want to
style this way we would just add the class APTN.
OK.
Globally Now one thing that I want to mention is the will go over this in a minute how the hover state
but when we go over the actual button we don't get a cursor.
We don't get a pointer on our cursor and for this we do K links by default you do get the pointer.
So if we want the pointer to show up either way we can actually set that in the CSF so we can set cursor
pointer and now when I go over the button you can see that it turns into a pointer now for the hover
state so let's say Beatty and hover troops.
We don't want a space there that won't work.
So Beatty and hover and we're gonna set the color to too light gray.
That's the text color and then the background.
I'm gonna set that to just a slightly lighter blue than the one we have which is going to be 4 4 6 1
9 0 OK.
Or is it darker.
I think it's yeah I think it's darker.
And then I'm going to just get rid of the text decoration underline for the link up here even though
we said links link covers should be coral down here we're saying the button hover should be light grey
and this is going to overwrite that style so let's save let's go ahead and hover and you can see that
the blue gets a little darker so you can't even distinguish the difference here between the the link
the tag and the button tag and that's that's what we want.
So that's what you're gonna do a lot in Web sites and especially in user interfaces where you have a
lot of links that you want to format as buttons.
All right so that's it guys in the next video what I want to do is start to look at menus creating vertical
and horizontal navigation bars.
So we'll get into that next.